# Sumobot code 

This code was made using Arduino. As part of a classwide competition, I contributed the code to my team's robot, Destroyer. 

This code was made to control a small robot using Arduino UNO with the main purpose of simulating a sumo fight. The robot's objective was to push or drive out an opponent from a white ring on a black mat. Defeat was signified by the humiliating retreat of an opponent over the white circle, either by the cunning of another robot or by its own foolishness. Victory was signified by survival. Destroyer had 2 color sensors on the side (binary, for white and black) and one distance sensor in the front. The coding strategy followed the rules of the game, and aimed to push the other robot away while itself staying within the ring. The front sensors were programmed to determine if there was an object within six inches, and upon confirmation, charge into battle until the sensor could not detect anything within range.  In the event of nothing being detected by the sensor, Destroyer was programmed to rotate 360 degrees until the sensor confirmed a target within range. To prevent backing out of the ring, when in any form of motion, if the color sensors detected the ring (white) they would go backward and move in the opposite direction of the sensor that picked up the white signal. (That is, if the left sensor sensed the ring it'll reverse to the right, and vice-versa) If both color sensors detected white, Destroyer was programmed to go backward and turn left. The competition consisted of two rounds in which we got the second place in both of them.

Note: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tko0KXBGqFc is a video that shows how the robot worked.
